<picture of Mario & Luigi, with a crab and a firefly in the background>


                        Atari(r) 7800(tm) Game Manual

                                 MARIO BROS.
                                by Nintendo(r)




Pests in the Pipes!

Mario the carpenter and his brother Luigi are hopping mad!  The water pipes in 
their house are blocked with pesky crawling creatures.  If the two brothers 
can't get rid of them, they'll never take a bath again!


Getting Started

1.  Insert the Mario Bros. cartridge into your Atari 7800 as explained in your 
    Owner's Manual.

2.  Plug a controller into the left port on the front of the system for one 
    player; plug a second controller into the right port for two players.

3.  Turn on your television; then press [Power] to turn on your Atari console.

4.  Press [Select] or move the directional lever on your controller forward or 
    backward to choose a one-player or two-player game.

5.  Press [Select] or move the directional lever on your controller left or 
    right to choose a game level.

6.  Press player 1's fire button or [Reset] to begin the game.

7.  Press [Pause] to pause a game.  Press it again to resume play.

8.  During a game, press [Select] to return to the title screen.  Press 
    [Reset] to restart.


Playing the Game

     Your task is to help Mario kick the pipe pests off the floors and into a 
bucket of water.  Press your controller button to make Mario jump up and punch 
the floor (and the pest) above him.  Move the directional lever on your 
controller left or right to make Mario run into stunned pests to kick them.  
Press your controller button while Mario is running to make him jump from 
floor to floor.
     Mario starts the game with three lives.  Each time he kicks a pest off a 
floor, you earn points.  If an active pest or a fireball catches Mario, he 
loses a life.  When all the pests are knocked off, the next phase begins.
     You earn an extra life at 20,000 points.  Scores and the number of lives 
remaining appear at the top of the screen.  The high score appears in the top 
center.  The phase you're playing appears in the bottom left corner of the 
screen.
     A coin spurts out of a waterpipe each time Mario kicks a pest off the 
floor.  Make Mario run into the coin or punch it from below to earn 800 bonus 
points.
     The POW switch appears near the bottom center of the screen.  When Mario 
hits the switch, it delivers a punch to all pests on the screen.  You can use 
the POW switch three times before it disappears.  You receive a new POW switch 
in rounds 8 and 13, and every fifth round after that.
     The game ends when Mario loses all his lives.  Press [Reset] or the fire 
button to begin a new game.

Coin Phase

     At certain times during the game, the pests disappear and a coin phase 
begins.  The screen is filled with dangling coins.  Mario has only a few 
seconds to grab as many coins as possible.  Every coin Mario gets earns 800 
bonus points.  A timer at the top fo teh screen counts down the seconds:  20 
seconds for each coin phase.  Extra points are awarded if Mario gets all the 
coins before the time expires.

Two-Player Game

     In two-player games, one player is Mario and the other player is Luigi.  
Luigi plays the game the same way Mario does.  You can work as a team, with 
one player punching the pests and the other player kicking them off the floor.
     Or you can compete with each other for the highest score.  If you do, 
watch out for sneak attacks--your opponent may punch a pest back on its feet 
just as you're about to kick it off the floor!


The Pests

     Knocking off a pest is a two-part maneuver.  First punch the floor 
directly beneath a pest to flip it onto its back.  The jump up to the floor 
and kick the stunned pest off the floor before he recovers.

<turtle>  Eliminate Shellcreepers by punching them one from below and then 
          kicking them off teh floor before they can get away.

<crab>    At the first punch, Sidesteppers become enraged and start moving 
          faster.  Punch them again to flip them over; then kick them off the 
          floor.

<firefly> Fighterflies hop from one section of the floor to another.  The only 
          time Mario or Luigi can flip one over is when it's touching the 
          floor.

<iceblob> In higher levels Slipice appears.  He's a man iceman who freezes 
          floors into slippery ice.  Punch him from below to keep him from 
          chilling the floors.

<fireball>Fireballs can fry Mario and Luigi to a crisp.  Avoid fireballs by 
          jumping over them or by jumping to another level.  Punch fireballs 
          to destroy them.


Plumbing Tips

*  Use your POW switch when more than one pest is on the screen.

*  Watch out for the last pest on the screen.  It speeds up and is much harder 
   to punch.

*  Hit a Sidestepper twice quickly.  If you're fast, you can flip it over 
   before it scurries off to a different floor.

*  Punch pests near the edge of a floor so they fall to the level you are on.


Scoring

Here's how to earn points:

     Kick a pest off the floor............800 points
Kick multiple pests off the floor quickly:
     1st pest.............................800 points
     2nd pest............................1600 points
     3rd pest............................2400 points
     4th pest............................3200 points
     Get or punch a coin..................800 points
     Punch Slipice........................500 points
     Punch green fireball.................200 points
     Punch orange fireball...............1000 points
     Punch a pest..........................10 points








                                     |||
                                    / | \
                                   ATARI(r)


Atari Corporation is unable to guarantee the accuracy of printed material after
date of publication and disclaims liability for changes, errors, or omissions. 
Reproduction of this document or of any portion of its contents is not allowed 
without the specific written consent of the Atari Corporation.

Atari(r), the Atari logo, and 7800(tm) are trademarks or registered trademarks 
of Atari Corporation.  Fighterfly(tm), Luigi(tm), Mario Bros.(tm), 
Shellcreeper(tm), Sidestepper(tm), Slipice(tm), and Nintendo(r) are trademarks 
or registered trademarks of Nintendo of America Inc. (c) 1983 Nintendo of 
America Inc.  Manufactured under license from Nintendo of America Inc. 7800 
version by ITDC.

Copyright (c) 1983, Nintendo of America, Inc.  All rights reserved.

Copyright (c) 1988, Atari Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA  94086. 
All rights reserved.

Printed in Hong Kong, G.C. 5.1990                      C300018-050 Rev. A


