<picture of water skier partially hidden by a large wave>


                               FROGGO GAMES(tm)

                                                     7800(tm)
                                   Water 
                                   Ski(tm)

                                            Video Game Cartridge
                                            For Use with ATARI (r)
                                             Video Computer 
                                            Systems Model 7800(tm)





Water Ski

     Danger lurks around every bend of the treacherous Pharonna River, and 
you're taking it head on!  With a hunger for fatal thrills, your team of 
bionic skiers get every chance to wipe out in shame or glory.  But you have a 
higher purpose:  you know the dardevil's greatest challenge lies in cheating 
death, and the greatest victory is...survival.
     Race the clock and the scoreboard at perilous speed.  The faster you get 
through the obstacle course, the more running points you accumulate.  Defy 
death with a gutsy flair, hitting every ramp, and watch your scores rise!  But 
be warned, very few cross the finish line and leave the Pharonna alive!
     It's outrageous, complex, deadly and totally rad, and you'll still be 
learning the game after months of intense play.


<screenshot of boat & waterskier going through course>


Getting Started

     Set up your 7800 properly, according to the instructions.
     Make sure the system is shut off.
     Place the Water Ski cartridge in the game slot with its label facing away 
from the front panel buttons.
     Switch the system on.  The Water Ski title will appear.  To take your 
first perilous run, press the left joystick button.  This will start the game 
from the title screen, or restart it after the game is over.
     The RESET button resets the game to the title screen.
     The PAUSE button freezes the game unti you press it again.  
     You get four boat/skier runs to start with.  Crash a speedboat or mangle 
a skier, and you go on to the next run.


Scoring

     Your score is displayed in the upper left hand corner of the screen.

Running Points      The Faster you get through the course, the higher you 
                    score.  Speed is of the essence.
Ramps               Every ramp you jump earns you 10,000 points.
Levels              Reaching the next level earns 50,000 points.
Extra Boat/Skier    Earn an extra run every 200,000 points.


Levels

     Water Ski has three levels to vex and challenge you, and you must earn 
the right to advance to the next level.
     The game beings at level one and, if you are clever and agile enough, 
continues to level two and finally to level three. Once you reach level two, 
you stay at that level until you lose your last boat/skier or advance to the 
final level.  After a wipeout or crash, if you have skiers remaining, the next 
run starts at the beginning of the current level.  E.g., if your third skier 
makes it into level two and then gets chomped by a river shark, your fourth 
run starts at the beginning of level two.
     Reaching the next level does not earn you an extra run, but the bonus 
50,000 points you earn will help towards the next 200,000 points you need to 
get an extra run.

Level One      Obstacle Slalom Run--This is the first level, with the greatest 
               number of ramps and stationary obstacles.  Jump as many ramps 
               as you can to earn bonus points, or try to avoid everything and 
               sneak through to level two.  Watch out for rocks, piers, tree 
               stumps, out-of-control speedboats crossing your path, and 
               hidden rocks near the unforgiving shoreline--you'll get to know 
               them well!

Level Two      Shark & Alligator Main Course--This level is even more 
               challenging than the first.  Watch out for the buoys, rocks and 
               logs, if you can!  The waters of level two are infested with 
               zig-zagging hybrid river sharks and huge alligators.  They 
               smell fresh meat and are on the move!

Level Three    High-speed Death Run--The emphasis here is speed, pure and 
               simple.  Crank it up and wind it out!  For the high-fliers 
               among you, there are ramps and ever-present opportunities to 
               smash into more obstacles.  Cross the finish line and join the 
               select few who have mastered the Pharonna.

     The level indicator is located on the bottom middle of the screen.


Goals

     Water Ski has two goals:  crossing the finish line at the end of level 
three, which ends the game, and obtaining the highest possible score.
     The top score, located in the top right hand corner of the screen, 
indicates the highest score since the machine was turned on.
     You have four runs to reach your goal before the game ends.  The number 
of boat/skiers you have left are indicated on the lower left hand side of the 
screen.  Crash a boat or skier, and you lose that run.
     In addition to running up the highest possible score, you want to go as 
far as you can with the best time possible.  The elapsed time is located on 
the lower right hand side of the screen.
     If you ever make it to level three with extra skiers, remember:  the game 
ends when you cross the finish line.  Some unscrupulous, heartless master 
Water Skiers have been known to sacrifice a skier or two just before crossing 
the line, in order to maximize their point totals.


Controls

     You have separate controls for the speedboat and the skier.  Be careful, 
because the towrope lifeline creates a complex interaction between the two, 
just like in real life.  Every move the boat makes affects the speed and 
direction of the skier, and vice versa, to a lesser degree.  And often, using 
both controls, there are cumulative effects, where a slight tap in one 
direction can send your skier hurtling to its doom!
     It takes weeks to master the simplest high-speed maneuvers, at a terrific 
cost of life and limb, not to mention boat hardware.  And even then, you may 
never see level three alive!

Speedboat      Moving joystick left or right directs the boat.  Moving 
               joystick forward steadily speeds up the boat, backward steadily 
               decreases boat speed.
 
Skier          Pressing left joystick button moves skier left, right button 
               moves skier right.  Skier can move independently of boat 
               direction, until the limits of the towrope are reached.  
               Holding button down increases skier movement, faster and 
               farther.

     You are speeding upstream.  The Pharonna's current will cause you to 
drift and affect the interaction of the skier and speedboat.


<screenshot of boat/skier maneuvering through obstacles>


Wipeouts

     The skier will wipe out if it hits any object except a ramp.  Jumping any 
ramp scores a bonus 10,000 points.
     The boat will crash if it hits any object on the screen.  Boats will not 
survive hitting a ramp.
     If the boat or skier hits any terrain, a crash will occur and the run 
will be over.  Caution:  don't get too fancy around the shortline, beacuse of 
the hidden rocks and sand bars.


Hints

     Sometimes it is necessary to speed up to avoid obstacles.  Look ahead as 
much as possible to anticipate dangers.
     Remember, when you jump a ramp the skier can not change direction while 
in the air.  Also, the skier can jump over obstacles if it his a ramp fast 
enough.
     On some obstacles, the speedboat can pass on one side and the skier pass 
on the other.  But keep this in mind:  show-offs die!


Game Over

     The game is over when you have used up all four boat/skier runs or when 
you cross the finish line.  Restart the game by pressing the left joystick 
button.


Final Words

It is possible:     to hit every ramp;
                    to score 1,000,000 points;
                    to live to a very ripe old age without ever seeing level 
                    three.


Adjusting Color

Since colors vary slightly from TV to TV; here are some guidelines to 
adjusting the color for Water Ski:

     1.   Water is medium blue.
     2.   Boat is red.
     3.   Skier is light tan or off-white.






     Want to be the first to know when our next new Froggo video game becomes 
available?  Just send us a card with your name and mailing address, so we can 
put you on our Special Customer Mailing List.  Also, watch for new Froggo 
video games wherever you buy game cartridges.

FROGGO GAMES CORPORATION
479 Macara Avenue
Sunnyvale, CA  94086

ATARI(r) is a registered trademark and
Video Computer System(tm) is a trademark of ATARI, INC.

FG2002    (c) Froggo Games Corp.

<END OF MANUAL>

<on a card inserted with the manual>

FROGGO GAMES CORPORATION(tm)


LIMITED NINETY DAY WARRANTY

Froggo Games Corporation warrants to the original consumer purchaser that your 
Froggo Games Corporation video game cartridge is free from any defects in 
material or workmanship for a period of ninety days from the date of purchase. 
If any such defect is discovered within the warranty period, Froggo Games 
Corporation will repair or replace the cartridge free of charge on receipt of 
the cartridge, with proof of purchase, postage paid, at:

     Froggo Games Corporation
     2685 Marine Way, Bldg. 1219
     Mountain View, CA  94043

     This warranty does not apply to defects resulting from abuse, alteration, 
or unreasonable use of the cartridge.
     Any applicable implied warranties, including warranties of 
merchantability and fitness, are hereby limited to ninety days from date of 
purchase.  Consequential or incidental damages resulting from a breach of any 
applicable express or implied warranties are hereby excluded.  Some states do 
not allow limiations on how long implied warranties last and do not allow 
exclusion of incidental or consequential damages, so the above limitation and 
exclusions may not apply to you.
     This warranty gives you specific legal rights, and you may also have 
other rights which vary from state to state.

SERVICE AGREEMENT

If after the ninety day limited warranty period, your Froggo games Corporation 
cartridge requires service, Froggo Gams Corporation will service the cartridge 
on receipt, postage paid, with proof of date of purchase, with your check in 
the sum of $10.


